# 7 - Memory

1. **What is the difference between logical and physical address spaces?**
    
    * Logical Addresses = addresses generated by the CPU
    * Physical Addresses = addresses seen by the memory unit
<br>
<br>
<br>
2. **What is a simple hardware setting (using base and limit registers) for defining the address space and memory protection?**

    Check that every address generated by the CPU has a valid base and limit.
<br>
<br>
<br>
3. **Explain the three dynamic memory allocation solutions for contiguous memory allocation.**

    1. **First-fit** - Allocate the first hole that is big enough.
    2. **Best-fit** - Allocate the smallest hole that is big enough.
    3. **Worst-fit** - Allocate the largest hole.
<br>
<br>
<br>
4. **Explain these concepts:**

    1. **Swapping**

        A process can be swapped temporarily out of memory to a backing store, and then brought back into memory for continued execution.

    2. **Fragmentation**
        
        As processes are loaded and removed from memory, the free memory space is broken into little pieces.

    3. **Segmentation**
    
        Original memory management scheme, where different parts of a program were given a unique segment.
<br>
<br>
<br>
5. **What problem does paging solve in memory management? What is the difference between frames and pages? Explain the basic address translation scheme used in paging.**

    Paging solves external fragmentation. It permits the physical address space to be non-contiguous. Frames are blocks in physical memory, while pages are blocks in logical memory. Every address generated by the CPU is divided into two parts, a page number, and a page offset. The page number is used as an index into a page table, which contains the base address of each page in physical memory. The page offset is combined with the base address to define the physical memory address that is sent to the memory unit.
<br>
<br>
<br>
6. **How does TLB improve the implementation of the page table? What is the TLB hit rate?**

    TLB is a hardware cache. A portion of the page table is put into the cache for quick lookup. The TLB hit rate is the percentage of times that a particular page number is found in the TLB.

7. **Explain segmentation and paging used in the MMU of the Intel Processors.**
    IA-32 support both pure segmentation and segmentation with paging. The CPU generates logical addresses, which is given to the segmentation unit. The segmentation unit convert the logical addresses into linear addresses. The linear address is then given to the paging unit, which generates the physical address in main memory.
